# Music Generator
## Problem Definition
To Generate noval music in abc notation music, which can be later converted to mp3 format using abc notation music to mp3 converter. The model uses **Character RNN Model** for music generation.

## How to Run
Download the repository 
1) To train the model: run 'train.py --input input_file --epochs no --freq no'<br>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;* input - abc notation music input for training<br>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;* epochs - no of epochs to train<br>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;* freq - model checkpoints frequency<br> 
  &nbsp;It saves the trained model to model folder. These trained models can be later used for Music Generation.
2) To generate the music: run 'test.py --epoch model --seed char --len no'<br>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;* epoch - input which model to use<br>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;* seed - intial char for noval music generation<br>
  &nbsp;&nbsp;* len - length of output abc notation music<br>

## Dataset
Refer this: http://abcnotation.com/ <br>
It contains the libraries of music composed by different authors in abc notation. This music can be used for training the model to generate new music.

## Objective
Our objective is to generate the noval music in abc notation by training the model with music generated by musicians. Here, our loss is Log loss of the softmax classifier. Our goal is to reduce the Log loss error as low as possible.

## Prerequisites
You need to have installed following softwares and libraries in your machine before running this project.<br>
* **Python 3:** https://www.python.org/downloads/<br>

### Libraries:<br>
1. **Keras:** It is a deep learning library.<br>
pip install Keras<br>
2. Other libraries such as pandas, matplotlib, numpy and scipy.<br>

## Authors
• Aditya
<br>

## Acknowledgments
• Applied AI Course 
